docs: colony + holacracy article (#146)
leapdao/leapdao-website: src/posts/colony-reputation-holacracy.md

---
template: post.html
title: 'How we integrated colony reputation with holacracy'
date: 2020-02-09 10:00:00
image: holacracy-glassfrog-circle.jpg
author:
  name: '@KenoBudde'
  twitter: '@KenoBudde'
  link: https://github.com/clearwood/
description: explanation of our integration of holacracy with colony reputation.
---

> We will make organizations modern again.

Reviewer: Let's not use trumpish "...make ...again" :P
what about:
"Building on reputation & flat hierarchies to fuel the economies of the future."
"Incentivizing self-management & holacracy, for the organizations of tomorrow"

...or a mix of both, you get my idea :)

Author: that was kind of the joke ^^ I understand why we might have to change that

## How we work

LeapDAO is a distributed team and strives to be truly decentralized. As a developer cooperative [LeapDAO](https://leapdao.org "LeapDAO's website") uses the holacracy governance model to structure teams and budgets in alignment with its purpose and roadmap.

> Holacracy is an extremely dynamic framework which serves us well, a model which gives responsibility to every single developer. It encourages every member to work as a enterpreneur within a company, always working for the benefit of himself, the others and the collective. LeapDAO is structured in circles, you can imagine them as departments or domains. Regular meetings and calls help us stay aligned with our strategies and purpose. Circles are teams such as the "dev" circle or independent ecosystem projects such as [Deora](https://www.deora.earth/). The structure is constantly evolving, [Glassfrog](https://app.glassfrog.com/organizations/14849/orgnav/roles/10883348) is the software of our choice to keep track of it.

Reviewer: better say: "work like an enterpreneur"

...otherwise this might causes confusion...check ?

<img src="/img/blog/holacracy-glassfrog-circle.jpg" alt="Current organizational overview of LeapDAO">

> The same person might have multiple roles within the organization and be a part of multiple circles, just like someone might juggle multiple responsibilities in a more traditional enterprise. We are truly decentralized and having structures which continually change for the better is crucial for us.

Reviewer: "One person can have multiple...."

Every circle manages their own multi-sig wallet with individual budgets and is responsible for all tasks in their area of expertise.

> All work is done through [bounties](https://app.glassfrog.com/organizations/14849/orgnav/policies/10912780 "Bounty policy") which anyone can propose similarly to colony tasks. Proposed bounties can be objected to through our Slack or the associated Github issue. Similarly, bounties without any progress can be challenged by other developers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of the work is done through [bounties](https://app.glassfrog.com/organizations/14849/orgnav/policies/10912780 "Bounty policy") which anyone can propose similarly to colony tasks. Proposed bounties can be objected to through our Slack or the associated Github issue. Similarly, bounties without any progress can be challenged by other developers.
```

Reviewer 2: For instance, we have Invoicing policy.

Also sometimes money are [just spent arbitrary](https://leapdao.slack.com/archives/CAAGW85BR/p1583923996011600)

Reviewer: "Most of the work..." :+1:

+ after "...developers." maybe add:

"Small tasks or minor adjustments which may not fit into a whole bounty, can still be completed by applying the Invoice policy."

According to the concept proposed by colony each bounty has three roles:

1. The gardener who prepared the specifications.
2. The worker who completed the bounty.
3. The reviewer who checks that the work fulfills the requirements and serves the purpose of assuring the quality of our products.

Bounties are structured into different sizes with increasing payout, all of which are denominated in DAI.

## What colony means to us

Colony is an exciting project promising to deliver solutions for digital companies with a great range of solutions and a plentiful of smart contracts.

> Next to distributing and managing money, LeapDAO keeps track of reputation as the important measurement within the organisation. [Colony reputation](https://blog.colony.io/the-colony-reputation-system-5616293c3949/) is a way to keep track of merit, how much an individual has contributed to the success of an organization by clear metrics. Reputation is added by serving a role or contributing in the form of working on bounties.  Reputation is designed to decay over time, so that only active participants have a high level of reputation within the organisation. This way, we avoid plutocratic structures and only reward individuals who contribute to common good. Since colony has switched to the mainnet we deployed [our own implementation](https://github.com/leapdao/leap-contracts/blob/master/contracts/misc/IColony.sol).

Reviewer 2: > Reputation is added by serving a role

this is not like this at the moment

Author: ```suggestion
Next to distributing and managing money, LeapDAO keeps track of reputation as the important measurement within the organisation. [Colony reputation](https://blog.colony.io/the-colony-reputation-system-5616293c3949/) is a way to keep track of merit, how much an individual has contributed to the success of an organization by clear metrics. At the moment reputation is added by contributing in the form of working on bounties. In the future it is planned for users to earn reputation by serving a role too. Reputation is designed to decay over time, so that only active participants have a high level of reputation within the organisation. This way, we avoid plutocratic structures and only reward individuals who contribute to common good. Since colony has switched to the mainnet we deployed [our own implementation](https://github.com/leapdao/leap-contracts/blob/master/contracts/misc/IColony.sol).
```

Reviewer: "At the moment reputation is added by being involved in the completion of bounties."

- either as gardener, worker or reviewer...

Deployed at [wallet.leapdao.org](https://wallet.leapdao.org/) this allows every circle to easily reward and payout contributors. The workflow goes as following:

1. To the multi-sig wallet we added a payout bounty button.

<img src="/img/blog/payout-bounty.png" alt="Payout bounty button">

2. This button launches a modal with a flexible form allowing any member of the Escrow council to add the roles participating in the task.

<img src="/img/blog/payout-bounty-modal.png" alt="Payount modal with flexible form">

3. If worker funds are held outside of the multi-sig (this applies if a Bounty is worked on through Gitcoin or Bounties Network) then we use the `Reputation only` checkbox for the worker, while still paying gardeners and reviewers directly.

<img src="/img/blog/multisig-transaction-prepared.png" alt="prepared multisig transaction">

## How reputation benefits every developer

> Reputation is rewarded by distributing funds accumulated through our Plasma-bridge contract. Every month reputation turns into Leap tokens. To achieve this we query our [Colony contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x24f861f8356fa8d18b6adea07ac59719f42012b1) for the reputation root hash:  

Reviewer: token distribution is bi-montly instead of monthly

> Reputation is rewarded by distributing funds accumulated through our Plasma-bridge contract. Bimonthly, reputation turns into Leap tokens. To achieve this we query our [Colony contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x24f861f8356fa8d18b6adea07ac59719f42012b1) for the reputation root hash:  

Reviewer 2: > Reputation is rewarded by distributing funds accumulated through our Plasma-bridge contract. Bimonthly, reputation turns into Leap tokens.

not relevant since Mainnet shutdown (no Plasma-bridge contract anymore)

Author: ```suggestion
Reputation was rewarded by distributing funds accumulated through our Plasma-bridge contract. Bimonthly, reputation turned into Leap tokens. Because of our temporary mainnet shutdown this function is inactive too. 
Nonetheless, here is a quick rundown on what we did: Our [Colony contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x24f861f8356fa8d18b6adea07ac59719f42012b1) was queried for the reputation root hash:  
```

const { open } = require('@colony/purser-software');
(async () => {
  const wallet = await open({
    privateKey: "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000001",
  });
  const networkClient = await getNetworkClient('mainnet', wallet);
  const repHash = await networkClient.getReputationRootHash.call();
  console.log('repHash:', repHash);
})().then(() => process.exit()).catch(error => console.error(error));
```

Using the root hash a simple GET request to the colony API  is sufficient to receive the individual reputation for each developer. For example to query the reputation amount for the ethereum address `0x8db6B632D743aef641146DC943acb64957155388` at root hash `0xdf32626d1f933a177f6a9431ff085b96561cc5da7240baccc4ef3897646f5553` we would place [this  GET request](https://colony.io/reputation/mainnet/0xdf32626d1f933a177f6a9431ff085b96561cc5da7240baccc4ef3897646f5553/0x24f861f8356fa8d18b6adea07ac59719f42012b1/88/0x8db6B632D743aef641146DC943acb64957155388). At the point of writing we manually query reputation, calculate the individual reward share for each contributor and create a cute pie chart:

<img src="/img/blog/cute-pie.png" alt="reputation pie chart">

> 

Reviewer: + "Please note: At the moment our mainnet is shutdown[link to blog post]. The described setup was working for us, and will get a improved revival, once our software is updated and the mainnet is resurrected.

> If you are interested in what we are doing, join the conversation on our [Slack](http://join.leapdao.org) or follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/leapdao). LeapDAO is a very small independent team incubated by [Status.im](https://incubate.status.im/projects/) and running on the Ethereum Foundation grant. We are looking for active people to join our core research and development.

Reviewer: let's not understate LeapDAO:
* "LeapDAO is a small independent & fully distributed team...."

* status incubator link is nor working for me...

Author: the status subpage seems to be deleted
i added the blog post instead

---
template: post.html

> title: 'How we integrated colony reputation with holacracy'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 'How we integrated Colony reputation with Holacracy and bounties'
```

> date: 2020-02-09 10:00:00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2020-03-12 10:00:00
```

image: holacracy-glassfrog-circle.jpg
author:
  name: '@KenoBudde'
  twitter: '@KenoBudde'
  link: https://github.com/clearwood/

> description: explanation of our integration of holacracy with colony reputation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: How we integrate bounties, Holacracy and Colony reputation
```

## How we work

> LeapDAO is a distributed team and strives to be truly decentralized. As a developer cooperative [LeapDAO](https://leapdao.org "LeapDAO's website") uses the holacracy governance model to structure teams and budgets in alignment with its purpose and roadmap.

Reviewer: i like !

## How we work

As a developer cooperative [LeapDAO](https://leapdao.org "LeapDAO's website") uses the holacracy governance model to structure teams and budgets in alignment with its purpose and roadmap.

> Holacracy is an extremely dynamic framework which serves us well, a model which gives responsibility to every single developer. We are structured in circles and regular meetings help us stay aligned to our goals. Circles are teams such as the dev circle or independent projects such as [Deora](https://www.deora.earth/). The structure is constantly evolving, [Glassfrog](https://app.glassfrog.com/organizations/14849/orgnav/roles/10883348) is the software of our choice to keep track of it.

Reviewer: LeapDAO is structured in circles, you can imagine them as departments or domains. Regular meetings/calls help us stay aligned with our strategies & purpose. Circles are teams such as the "dev" circle, focussed on development, or independent ecosystem projects such as Deora.

Reviewer: Another thought: Holacracy encourages every member to work as a enterpreneur within a company...always working for the benefit of himself, the others & the collective...maybe you can slide that in if you like the idea :)

<img src="/img/blog/holacracy-glassfrog-circle.jpg" alt="Current organizational overview of LeapDAO">

> The same person might have multiple roles within the organization and be a part of multiple circles, just like someone might juggle multiple responsibilities in a more traditional enterprise. We are truly decentralized and having structures which continually change for the better is crucial for us.

Reviewer: LeapDAO is a distributed team and strives to be truly decentralized...

Colony is an exciting project promising to deliver solutions for digital companies with a great range of solutions and a plentiful of smart contracts.

> For us, maintaining reputation was the most important aspect. [Colony reputation](https://blog.colony.io/the-colony-reputation-system-5616293c3949/) is a way to keep track of merit, how much an individual has contributed to the success of an organization by clear metrics. Reputation is added by serving a role or contributing in the form of working on a bounty and slowly decays over time. Since colony has switched to the mainnet we deployed [our own implementation](https://github.com/leapdao/leap-contracts/blob/master/contracts/misc/IColony.sol).

Reviewer: Next to distributing & managing money, we keep track of reputation as the important measurement within the organisation. Colony Reputation....

> To use the colony-task feature we created a [bounty payout contract](https://github.com/leapdao/leap-contracts/blob/master/contracts/misc/BountyPayout.sol) utilizing Colony payment. As a user interface we [forked](https://github.com/leapdao/MultiSigWallet) the Gnosis multi-sig. The funds of every circle are managed by a separate Escrow council.

Reviewer: I often see formulations like "We", that sounds very active.
We could write the text more passive like: "As a user interface LeapDAO forked...."
What do you think ?

Author: The question is do we want a consistent styling on it or a mix? I propose the latter for the time being and make according changes. Please tell me what you think :)

Colony is an exciting project promising to deliver solutions for digital companies with a great range of solutions and a plentiful of smart contracts.

> Next to distributing and managing money, LeapDAO keeps track of reputation as the important measurement within the organisation. [Colony reputation](https://blog.colony.io/the-colony-reputation-system-5616293c3949/) is a way to keep track of merit, how much an individual has contributed to the success of an organization by clear metrics. Reputation is added by serving a role or contributing in the form of working on a bounty and slowly decays over time. Since colony has switched to the mainnet we deployed [our own implementation](https://github.com/leapdao/leap-contracts/blob/master/contracts/misc/IColony.sol).

Reviewer: "...in the form of working on self-proposed tasks/bounties." - choose a term, i like both :)

lets build a separate sentence, i think the function of decay is important to clarify:
"Reputation is designed to decay over time, so that only active workers have a high level of reputation within the organisation. This way, we avoid plutocratic structures and only reward individuals who contribute to common good.

Author: I prefer bounties rather than self-proposed tasks, as the gardener and worker are often different people. 

I replaced "active workers" in the second part with "active participant" as I think it might lead to confusion with the worker job as part of a bounty.

## How reputation benefits every developer

> We reward reputation by distributing funds accumulated through our Plasma-bridge contract. Every month reputation turns into money when Leap tokens are distributed. To achieve this we query our [Colony contract](https://etherscan.io/address/0x24f861f8356fa8d18b6adea07ac59719f42012b1) for the reputation root hash:  

Reviewer: Just a note: a leap Token is not "money", it could be, but it is mainly used as a counter for the reputation...& can be used as gas for the plasma chain...i suppose. Maybe just change the term "money". 👯

Author: you are right that the term is misleading
